hi this is Jared from motion sound
studios in Los Angeles California today
we're going to talk about how to
determine a guitar chord from just
listening to it now this is a skill that
like most skills has to be developed
over time it really just takes practice
listening and aural theory is just
something like any muscle you have to
practice a lot and there are some chords
on guitar that are a little easier to
tell so what we should start with those
once you start to be able to hear what
those chords sound like you'll start
being able to kind of hear what
everything sounds like so the easiest
ones to tell what they are are the open
chords and that's because they have a
very distinct sound and they can't be
shifted up and down the neck like bar
chords for example the G chord
that's one that has a very distinct
sound because you can hear the three
right there and the bass and then a
bunch of these open notes so you can
relate them to each other and that's
really the key when you're trying to
figure out chords on the guitar is you
got to hear those intervals in between
them so when you hear that hearing this
the fifth at the beginning and then kind
of hearing the chord develop has a
unique sound for D major there so the
best things to practice when doing that
are looking at the intervals and which
open notes are being used in the chord
which ones you're not putting your
fingers on frets on and that's the best
way to figure out the chords also if you
know the key of the song being able to
listen to the relative pitch of that is
something that can help you a lot so if
you know the song is in G and you hear
this kind of the minor that it goes to
naturally that's going to be e minor
because it always is that in C there are
some tricks you can learn and things
like that lastly sometimes it can just
plain be impossible to tell which chord
it is unless you have perfect pitch and
that's because people will use a capo
and that'll put the frets down at a
certain level and then they can play an
open G chord up here or up here so it
gets really hard to tell this has been
jarred with motion sound today I taught
you about how to determine a guitar
chord from listening